Document PartialObjectMetadata accept param (#51994)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/using-api/api-concepts.md

Accept: application/json;as=Table;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1, application/json
```

> ## Receiving only the metadata of resources

Author: OK, note that the above section is titled "Receiving resources as Tables". My name selection for this title was selected to be consistent with it. Should that title change as well?

> ## Receiving only the metadata of resources

Author: I've changed both titles.

    "metadata": {
        "resourceVersion": "...",
    },
    "items": [
        {
            "apiVersion": "meta.k8s.io/v1",
            "kind": "PartialObjectMetadata",
            "metadata": {
                "name": "pod-1",
                ...
            }
        },
        {
            "apiVersion": "meta.k8s.io/v1",
            "kind": "PartialObjectMetadata",
            "metadata": {
                "name": "pod-2",
                ...
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

For a request for a collection, the API server returns a `PartialObjectMetadataList`.
For a request for a single object, the API server returns a `PartialObjectMetadata`
object. In both cases, the returned objects only contain the `metadata` field.
The `spec` and `status` fields are omitted.

This feature is useful for clients that only need to check for the existence of
an object, or that only need to read its metadata. It can significantly reduce
the size of the response from the API server.

This feature works with both JSON and Protobuf media types. For Protobuf, the
`Accept` header would be
`application/vnd.kubernetes.protobuf;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`.

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure how familiar readers are with standard HTTP content type negotiation.

Would it be worth doing any of the following:
* linking `standard HTTP content type negotiation` to a good user guide to how that works / is used
* mentioning that if the client indicates it only accepts `...;as=PartialObjectMetadata;...`, servers that don't support partial object metadata responses will return a 406 error code
* mentioning that if falling back to full objects in that case is desired, clients can add `,application/json` and/or `,application/vnd.kubernetes.protobuf` to their Accept header, and handle either PartialObjectMetadata or full objects in the response

Accept: application/json;as=Table;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1, application/json
```

If the client indicates it only accepts `...;as=Table;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`, servers
that don't support table responses will return a 406 error code.

If falling back to full objects in that case is desired, clients can add `,application/json`
(or any other supported encoding) to their Accept header, and handle either
table or full objects in the response:

```http
Accept: application/json;as=Table;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1,application/json`
```

For more information on content type negotiation, see the
[MDN Content Negotiation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Content_negotiation).

## Metadata-only fetches

> To request partial object metadata, you can request metadata only responses in the `Accept`
> header. The Kubernetes API implements standard HTTP content type negotiation. For read requests,
> passing an `Accept` header containing a value of `application/json;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`
> will request that the server return objects containing only metadata.

Reviewer 2: This isn't standard HTTP; it's close, but it's not something that would get past
a strict reading of the standards.

- `application/json` doesn't have `as`, `g` or `v` format parameters
- `application/yaml` and `application/cbor` neither

```suggestion
To request partial object metadata, you can request metadata only responses in the `Accept`
header. The Kubernetes API implements a variation on HTTP content type negotiation.
As a client, you can provide an `Accept` header with the desired media type,
along with parameters that indicate you want only metadata.
For example: `Accept: application/json;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`
for JSON.
```

Reviewer 2: > ```
> Each media-range might be followed by zero or more applicable media
> type parameters (e.g., charset), an optional "q" parameter for
> indicating a relative weight ([Section 5.3.1](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7231#section-5.3.1)), and then zero or more
> extension parameters.  The "q" parameter is necessary if any
> extensions (accept-ext) are present, since it acts as a separator
> between the two parameter sets.
> ```

If Kubernetes did that, sure. But does it? I don't think it does.

We don't have to say it's _non-standard_; that's rather harsh. But, equally, let's not call it standard if it never was.

Reviewer 2: Cool, let's not overcomplicate the explanation. It's hard enough already I think.

> For example, to list all of the pods on a cluster returning only the metadata for each pod:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to list all of the pods in a cluster, across all namespaces, but returning only the metadata for each pod:
```

This is teaching _two_ things (two things not commonly known):
1. cluster-scoped access to a namespaced API
1. partial fetches

Consider not accepting my suggestion,and instead: drop teaching the first one, and fetch something cluster-scoped. For example, fetch the metadata of all RuntimeClasses or ~IPAddresses~ ClusterTrustBundles.

```http
GET /api/v1/pods
Accept: application/json;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1
---
200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
    "kind": "PartialObjectMetadataList",
    "apiVersion": "meta.k8s.io/v1",
    "metadata": {
        "resourceVersion": "...",
    },
    "items": [
        {
            "apiVersion": "meta.k8s.io/v1",
            "kind": "PartialObjectMetadata",
            "metadata": {
                "name": "pod-1",
                ...
            }
        },
        {
            "apiVersion": "meta.k8s.io/v1",
            "kind": "PartialObjectMetadata",
            "metadata": {
                "name": "pod-2",
                ...
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> For a request for a collection, the API server returns a `PartialObjectMetadataList`.
> For a request for a single object, the API server returns a `PartialObjectMetadata`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a request for a collection, the API server returns a PartialObjectMetadataList.
For a request for a single object, the API server returns a PartialObjectMetadata
representation of the
```

object. In both cases, the returned objects only contain the `metadata` field.

> The `spec` and `status` fields are omitted.

Reviewer 2: What about `kind` and `apiVersion` (of the abbreviated objects)?

This feature is useful for clients that only need to check for the existence of
an object, or that only need to read its metadata. It can significantly reduce
the size of the response from the API server.

> This feature works with both JSON and Protobuf media types. For Protobuf, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can request a metadata-only fetch for all available media types (JSON, YAML, CBOR and Kubernetes Protobuf).
For Protobuf, the
```

Reviewer 3: So it doesn't work for CBOR? Do we expect this to change? What about YAML?

Author: @sftim is right. It works for all encodings, including CBOR.  Updated.

`Accept` header would be
`application/vnd.kubernetes.protobuf;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`.

> If the client indicates it only accepts `...;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`, servers
> that don't support partial object metadata responses will return a 406 error code.

Reviewer 2: (optional)
```suggestion
The Kubernetes API server supports partial fetching for nearly all of its built-in APIs.
However, you can use Kubernetes to access other API servers via the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="aggregation layer" term_id="aggregation-layer" >}}, and those
APIs may not support partial fetches.

If a client uses the `Accept` header to **only** request a response `...;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1`,
and accesses an API that doesn't support partial responses, Kubernetes responds
with a 406 HTTP error.

```
If adding this per suggestion, add an HTML comment to the CBOR section so that people know to update this too once CBOR graduates to GA. Markdown supports HTML comments.

If falling back to full objects in that case is desired, clients can add `,application/json`
(or any other supported encoding) to their Accept header, and handle either

> PartialObjectMetadata or full objects in the response:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PartialObjectMetadata or full objects in the response. It's a good idea to specify
that a partial response is preferred, using the `q` (_quality_) parameter. For example:
```

                ...
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

For a request for a collection, the API server returns a `PartialObjectMetadataList`.
For a request for a single object, the API server returns a `PartialObjectMetadata`
object. In both cases, the returned objects only contain the `metadata`, `kind` and
`apiVersion` fields. The `spec` and `status` fields are omitted.

See [Fallback to full objects](#fallback-to-full-objects) for information on how
to handle servers that may not support this feature.

## Fallback to full objects

The Kubernetes API server supports table and metadata-only fetching for nearly all of its built-in APIs.
However, you can use Kubernetes to access other API servers via the
{{< glossary_tooltip text="aggregation layer" term_id="aggregation-layer" >}}, and those
APIs may not support partial fetches.

If a client uses the `Accept` header to **only** request a table or metadata-only response,
and accesses an API that doesn't support partial responses, Kubernetes responds
with a 406 HTTP error.

If falling back to full objects in that case is desired, clients can add multiple
content types to their Accept header.

For example:

```http

> Accept: application/json;as=PartialObjectMetadata;g=meta.k8s.io;v=v1, application/json;q=0.9`

Reviewer 4: I think there’s an extra backtick at the end. Should be removed.
